Previously on "Ascension"...
As far as the crew believe, they're
halfway through a 100-year journey.
- And one of them is a murderer.
- I don't think Stokes did it.
What if the saboteurs have
been around longer than we've suspected.
If Lorelei made the same connection,
it might be why she died.
(Krueger): You have
someone inside Ascension.
You have a
wild imagination.
Sex is the true
currency here on this ship.
Don't undermine me
with my girls, Will.
(Denninger): And Rose?
- He's got to someone in your inner circle.
Can you uncover his spy?
Your life and the
life of this project
have the same expectancy.
(Krueger): I'm not just there
To investigate a murder, am I?
He's hiding something and
TC wants to know what that is.
Experiments?
She's what we've been
working towards, isn't she.
She's the best
chance we have.
I'm scared.
This whole project is
one big lie told to 600 people.
I can get tissue samples from their living
relatives, then we can test their DNA.
(Krueger): There's no way
I can't get to them.
Let me out!
(♪ Jazz ♪)
Excuse me!
I didn't think
it could be possible
to top last year's Ostara,
but you have done it.
(chuckling)
So many eager faces.
They spend the year hoping
and praying they'll be chosen
to have a child.
Tonight they find out
if they won the lottery.
Those who aren't chosen,
you think they'll blame you?
There's always
a few who feel
like I have some
influence over the birth list.
All I really do is
keep the alcohol flowing.
What about us?
Do you ever regret
not having a legacy?
Do we have to have this
discussion again, William?
Yeah, we wouldn't want
to talk about anything
that's simmering
beneath the surface.
I'm content. You're
the one with regrets.
Mmhmm.
Thank you.
(Krueger): So, what is this,
some kind of fertility festival?
Essentially.
It's Ostara.
It's a completely unique
cultural phenomenon.
It evolved into
what it became now
out of the necessity for keeping
the ship's population static.
Everything on the ship is
geared to this moment,
finding out who the
birth computer chose.
- With a little help.
- I don't make the selections.
Before couples are
allowed to be marries,
they submit their profiles
and find out their chances
of being selected.
That makes it easy to kill off
any pairings you don't like.
The integrity of
the experiment depends
on non-interference.
What is it? What are you
waiting for, Gault?
If I were single,
I'd be doing a damn site
more than just watching.
You put your name in
for marriage approval?
Every year for the last
3 years straight.
Ah, don't lose faith.
You're a high-value male.
An officer.
It's just a matter of
finding you the right match.
Ma'am!
Do your captain a favor.
Make sure the XO enjoys himself.
To Ostara!
(crew): Ostara!
To Ostara.
(crew applauding)
(woman laughing, echoing)
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
(woman continues laughing)
Mom!
(whispering):
Hi, Christa.
Do you hear that, mom?
(muttering indistinctly)
(woman continues laughing)
(footsteps)
Be honest.
Who rigs the birth list,
Viondra or your dad?
It isn't rigged, but it's
not a true lottery, either.
Come here!
It's weighted to take into
account genetic variance
in a small gene pool.
Think about it.
We only have 600 people...
To make billions.
So there's a chance,
then, for you and me.
Depends what
the computer decides.
It's kind of romantic,
if you think about it.
One match out of hundreds.
It's a machine that
decides our lives for us.
There's nothing
romantic about that.
(sighing)
Come on.
I don't want to
miss the dancing.
Can you believe she's
actually wearing a crown?
(chuckling)
She thinks she's royalty.
No, it's not a crown.
It's a fertility wreath!
Seems wrong that someone
who opted out of the birth list
should preside over it.
That's actually
a necessity.
It would be such a temptation
to put yourself on the list.
Ah, you're too
young to remember,
but just a
dozen years ago,
the selection was the
most tense day on the ship.
Now it's a party!
(Denninger):
Welcome to Ostara!
(crew):
To Ostara!
The originals knew a journey
of this magnitude
comes with
great sacrifice.
Our lives and laws are governed
by a different set of needs.
Our ancestors could fall
in love, marry and have children
as fate would allow.
But we have a
bigger responsibility:
To ensure the survival
of the human race.
(crew cheering and applauding)
Lorelei?
For us, death and life
are intrinsically intertwined.
Without one, there
cannot be the other.
Let us pause and remember those
who are no longer with us.
Ike Messmer, medical,
John Stokes, stockyard master,
and Lorelei wright, archives.
In their passing,
they allow for a creation
of new life, of new hope.
Lorelei, don't!
Now for the moment
you've been waiting for.
The computer's selection was
sealed in this envelope, unseen.
It is my honor to present...
Deborah and Timothy Fermi.
(woman): Whoo!
Susan and Paul Carr.
And the last name selected for
this year's birth list is...
Emily and Duke Vanderhaus.
(crowd cheering)
Duke, I...
(Viondra): Escort them
to their sleeping pods.
(crowd whistling)
Lorelei, wait!
(Lorelei, echoing):
Look away!
(on video):
Let me put on some music.
I love it when you do that.
What is this?
What else do you like?
Shut it off.
Shut it off!
(distorted):
Look away, Christa!
Look away!
(moaning)
(screaming)
(woman):
What's wrong?
Christa!
It's Ok!
Christa, it's Ok!
(Christa gasping)
Go back, before
the tape starts.
(chuckling)
You see?
She's reacting before
the tape begins.
She knew it was
gonna happen,
just like in the
medical center.
And the milk!
My father said
morphic resonance
would take a minimum
of 3 generations,
and he was right!
She's the catalyst.
(Christa screaming on video)
Looks like things are getting
out of hand on your ship.
It's Ostara.
Everyone gets
a little crazy.
Christa is
extremely unstable.
You clearly haven't spent
much time with teenagers.
They're volatile by definition.
You sit here, and you watch
them day in and day out,
but I think that you
forget they're people.
And you forget
I've known Christa
since the day she was born.
I watched her
take her first steps.
And now you get to watch
the project's effect on her.
I bet you're very proud.
What does it do?
Basically, it uses
magnets to look inside you.
Robert's father built
it a long time ago.
Will it be able
to help me?
Part of what makes the brain
just so hard to understand
is that we're stuck
inside of it.
We're just trying
to figure it out.
Like solving
a maze from the inside.
You still don't
remember anything
about the time
when you were sick?
I remember seeing Lorelei.
Lorelei?
You mean in a dream?
At the party.
Lorelei kept telling me to
look away, but I couldn't.
Sometimes, this feeling,
it comes over me.
I don't know how
to explain it.
Try. I'd like to know.
It feels like
I'm holding back an ocean.
(Viondra): Dammit, William!
You should've known better.
How many times am
I gonna have to tell you?
I had no idea Lorelei
was filming me.
Half of power
is perception,
and thanks to your stunning
lack of restraint,
everything that I have
worked for has come undone
in one humiliating moment!
It's gonna blow over.
We're not gonna end up in
the lower decks anytime soon.
Do you think all my efforts
to keep you seated,
the negotiation,
the favor-trading,
my lunches with Rose,
are because I'm afraid
to go back to the lower decks?
I've been there, William!
It doesn't frighten me!
It was your goddamn
birth-list ceremony!
I mean, how the hell
did that video get shown?
I have no idea,
but it's cost us dearly!
Do you think I don't know
what people say about me,
that I'm self-indulgent,
manipulative, a harpy?
I'm not who people
think I am, William.
I'm not.
If they knew the compromises
that I have made...
That was the bargain
that we both entered into.
You're the one
that complicated it.
Because I was foolish enough
to love you,
to think that we were
in this together?
And they meant
nothing to me.
You know that.
None of them
compare to you.
I saw the way
you looked at Lorelei.
It's been years since I've
seen that look in your eyes.
I'd almost forgotten
you were capable of it.
I hope it was worth it.
You know, you can drink
in the officer's lounge
now that you're a cadet.
It's not my
favorite place right now.
Of all the men on the ship,
I never would've
guessed it was the captain.
I'm sorry, James.
(sniffing)
I don't know what to say.
Don't.
We're never gonna
be matched, Nora.
There's no point
in starting this.
- James!
- I knew I didn't have a future with Lorelei.
But with you, I fooled myself
into thinking it was possible.
It is! You have to
have faith in the system.
The system's rigged,
all the hope in the
world won't change that.
I refuse to believe that.
It's the truth.
So, until someone
finds the courage
to destroy the birth computer
and change everything
on this ship,
we should stop
seeing each other.
You know, it's kind...
Looks like
someone lost a bet!
Um, no, a couple of
the guys just had a wager
about who'd get chosen
for the birth list.
That's a pretty
steep challenge,
trying to keep people
from procreating.
Kind of goes against
human nature.
How do they keep them
from getting knocked up?
And fooling around seems to
be their number-one pastime.
It's, um, subcutaneous birth-
control implants at puberty.
And everyone just
always follows the rules?
Uh, no.
No, uh, some people rebel.
They try to circumvent the
system, rip out their implants.
Their kids are
called "unclaimed."
The families are pretty much at
the bottom of the food chain.
Total pariahs.
And they knowingly put
themselves in that position?
Well, some people
are just hardwired
to want to have families,
regardless of whether
or not they should.
Should?
Genetically
speaking, of course.
Of course.
And what does Enzmann
look for, genetically speaking,
when determining who
make the birth list?
Oh, no, no, no! Harris has
nothing to do with it.
It's purely a
mathematic equation.
Also known as
old-school eugenics.
Well, that's kind
of a strong word.
You're deciding who
can and cannot procreate.
From where I stand,
that makes social Darwinism
look like a walk in the park.
You could've fired
a warning shot!
Warren told you
she got my report?
Yes, and she's on her way
over here now.
I thought you were starting
to grasp what we're doing here,
the impact it will have
on all of our futures.
Oh, I do, and I think
that you've gone unchecked
for far too long.
You have no concept
of the damage you've done.
You've cut me off
at the knees!
I don't work for you.
I work for her.
(rose chuckling)
You're working out
your frustrations,
or are you just avoiding
your lovely wife?
I'd imagine she's not
pleased with you!
My marriage is none
of your business.
You made it the business
of everyone on this ship.
That was some show you put on.
I was on the edge of my seat!
I couldn't wait to see
what would happen next.
Nothing stands in the way
of my duty to the ship.
You'd be wise
to remember that.
Looks like
I've overstayed my welcome.
Captain.
Rose, I'll see you
in chambers.
(chuckling)
Is something funny?
You have no idea how
powerless you really are.
What do you want, Rose?
I want you to step down
as captain, Denninger.
Ha! Never.
Fine! Very well.
I prefer the public
humiliation anyway.
Your movie swayed councilman
Davis to see things my way.
Now I have a
clear majority.
I'm gonna make you beg in
front of the whole ship.
It's been a while since I've
seen a Denninger on their knees,
but tell your wife
I send my regards.
(Rose groaning)
(woman):
What's going on?
(groaning)
(man 1):
Sir! Sir!
(groaning)
(man 2):
Sir, that's enough! Stop!
Sir! Councilman!
- Please!
- Sir!
You're done,
Denninger! Done!
(Denninger):
Let go!
Get off of me!
I'm fine.
(panting)
(beeping)
(lock beeping)
Time for your
happy pills, Stokes.
You know the drill.
I need to go to the can.
Pills first!
(groaning)
(beeping)
(grunting)
(Warren): I've left room
for your comments.
You cannot send
this report up the chain.
- Perhaps you forget our respective ranks.
- Seriously, Katherine...
If this is a plea
based on personal friendship...
Friendship, my ass!
From the beginning,
you've seen this
as a stepping stone to power
in and of itself.
It means nothing to you.
That's why you need me.
Only someone who
lives and breathes
and devotes his life, his
health, his sanity to this job
has any chance of
pulling it off.
So, you're the only smart,
motivated person on the planet?
I'm not irreplaceable
because I'm smart.
I'm irreplaceable
because I'm obsessed!
Do you know how
we met, your father and I?
It was at Nellis. I was part of
the president's advance team.
And when we arrived,
we found your father
working on the tarmac,
covered in grease and dirt,
up to his elbows in one
of his prototype engines.
He was threatening to murder
every airman on the base
if he didn't get a socket
wrench that moment.
But, evidently, the same design
had exploded a few days before.
And I grabbed that wrench,
and I marched up to him
and introduced myself
to your father.
And he hired me on the spot.
You quit a job with the
president to work for my father?
Yes.
He had a way of making
other men, even great men,
seem ordinary when
they stood beside him.
I didn't take
this job for power.
I took it because it
means something to me.
And I am questioning
whether you're the right
person to drive this ship.
(cell phone ringing)
(sighing)
(scoffing)
Yeah.
(Carrillo): We have a problem.
Stokes is gone.
Nine, together.
Ten, and done!
I heard Lorelei was
pregnant when she died.
You shouldn't believe
everything you hear.
Report back to the
stewardess dorms.
Prepare for a
full inspection.
Now!
(sighing)
Don't worry.
No one saw me.
I was careful.
That wasn't smart.
I'm under a lot
of scrutiny.
It sounds like
you need to relax.
No, what I need
is to find out...
Look, what I need is to find
out who uploaded that video.
There's only one person
it could've been.
Your wife.
What possible reason
would she have to do that?
Hell hath no fury like
an older woman scorned.
Don't underestimate
experience.
Can experience
give you a child?
I need something, a favor.
Can I trust you?
Anything.
I need this delivered
to the lower 40s.
I can't do it myself.
There are too
many eyes on me.
There's nothing
I wouldn't do for you.
(zipper lowering)
Ssorry! I... I didn't know
you were down here.
(door slamming)
Hey!
What deck are we on, huh?
Where's the
captain been hiding?
I've never been on this
part of the ship before.
We must be below
water reclamation,
near the pusher plate.
(grunting)
I can't... I can't imagine
how this must be for you.
I didn't kill
that girl, all right?
I will not rot
down here forever.
You can tell
the captain that.
I'm afraid that's
not gonna happen.
Then you take me to him,
and I'll tell him myself.
(gasping)
You know I'm
a butcher, right?
I need to talk to you.
Duke will be back soon.
I'm looking for
Lorelei's stenotab.
Do you know where it is?
All of her possessions were
turned into the safety office.
The stenotab was
never logged in.
Who did you
turn it over to?
Who do you think?
Why are you
acting this way?
Aaron, you know
what's between us is over.
You can't find excuses to...
You're the one discussing
our relationship,
not me.
I came to ask a question,
and I got an answer.
Thank you.
Oh, and congratulations
on the birth list.
You must be very happy.
We're locked down.
Security's looking for him.
He can't get far.
Director Warren is talking
contingency plans, Carrillo.
It's not just the project
that's at stake. It's us.
Find Stokes.
Who's that?
I'm supposed to
deliver this.
From the captain.
You're not getting
enough rations.
He's an unclaimed, isn't he?
You should go.
Take me to the bridge.
I wanna talk to Denninger.
You've gotta believe me!
He doesn't know
any more than you do.
No, you're lying!
He framed me!
I know that you
didn't kill Lorelei.
How do you know
that, huh? Who are you?
(men talking in distance)
Safety officers!
(man on hand radio, indistinct)
(guard):
Sound the all clear.
(both panting)
Why didn't you scream?
I wanna help you.
Why? What do you care?
No, don't go in
there, please! Please!
(breathing heavily)
The ship landed?
Where?
We're on earth.
That's impossible.
We didn't turn around.
You never left.
No, we... we haven't had
contact in decades.
No, this is
some kind of trick!
Stokes, listen to me!
You never left earth.
(crying)
I don't...
I don't understand!
They've been lying to you
since before you were born.
They've lied to you
about everything.
We have to get
out of here now.
Stokes!
We have to go now!
We have to go!
How's she doing?
She suffered
intense trauma,
and her brain may have
forged some faulty pathways
to avoid dealing with it.
- She's been through a lot.
- Yeah.
That video that was
shown during Ostara,
can you tracks the access code
that was used to upload it.
The subvid data
woven into each file,
it should track the codes.
So, it looks like
this was broadcast
from a terminal
on deck 13.
(Lorelei): Let me put
on some music.
(Bryce):
Section C. Wait a minute.
That doesn't make any sense.
What is it?
That's the captain's
access code.
That's impossible!
The captain didn't upload it.
Well, then, somebody
who had his code did.
(Lorelei): I love it
when you do that.
(echoing):
Christa!
Hi! What are
you doing home?
I got off work early
to have my implant removed.
(chuckling)
I still can't believe
this is happening.
What's wrong?
Gault came by to ask
about Lorelei's stenotab.
Gault, here?
And what did you tell him?
That you took it
to the safety office.
He told me it was
never logged in.
Hmm...
Duke, tell me the truth.
It was stolen from
the safety office.
I didn't realize it was
missing until after Ostara.
Why didn't you tell me?
The better question is why did
Gault bypass the safety office
and come to see my
wife in our cabin?
He probably thought I'd
forgotten to give it to you.
I'm not a fool, Emily.
Please don't
treat me like one.
I've seen the way
he looks at you.
We haven't always been
as close as I'd like,
but we're going
to have a child.
We've been chosen.
I need to know that
I'm your first choice.
You are.
And that there hasn't
been anyone else.
I told myself I was
being paranoid,
that it was one-sided.
"Let him have a
crush," I thought.
"Let him envy me!"
I ended it. I ended
it to be with you.
(sniffling)
Sleeping with an officer's
wife, that is serious enough,
but now that your
implant is gone...
Duke, I would never!
If he touches you now, that is
treason against the ship,
and I will make sure
he goes straight back
to the lower decks.
(crying)
(both panting)
This way!
(beeping)
Come on!
(man on hand radio, indistinct)
Stop where you are!
How did you get
past the checkpoint?
TC group.
Full authorization.
Step aside.
Yes, sir.
I apologize.
All right.
Thank you.
An armed contingent
just arrived from TC.
There's been a vote
of no confidence.
The TC group wants to
move in another direction,
and I'll be taking
a more hands-on rule
for the time being.
They're arriving to
escort me off the premises,
drive me into
a field somewhere?
Katherine, please!
I told you we are close.
I've had a success!
All you have done
is conceal the truth
about the anomaly,
the sabotage, the explosion.
The group feels you have
lost your objectivity,
and they're right.
You've become a liability.
Perhaps if you had
been more forthcoming,
you wouldn't find
yourself in this position.
Well, what are you
gonna tell my family,
that I drove my car
off a bridge?
Or is it gonna be
a hiking accident?
Oh, don't
torture yourself!
Harris, your family
will be well provided for.
So, all of this, keeping me
here, was just to keep me busy
until my retirement
squad arrives?
Listen, I know you
consider this a betrayal.
Without me,
this project is over.
The people on that ship don't
stand a chance. You'll fail.
They'll be gassed inside of
6 months, and you know it!
You've already failed, Harris.
- Katherine, please!
- It's over.
I'm begging you!
Katherine?
Please! Listen to me!
(stenotab beeping)
Whatever you have planned,
you sure you have
enough to unseat him?
(men and women clearing throats)
Mrs. Denninger.
Would you please
tell the council
the laws regarding
the birth list?
No man or woman will reproduce
who has not been selected
from the birth list.
Mmhmm, and the children born
from unsanctioned pairings
are a burden to
the shipboard community.
And their progenitors
are subject to discipline,
are they not?
The parent of an unclaimed
is forbidden to
hold office or rank.
Exactly!
Send them in, please.
Director Warren.
Mr. Carrillo,
thank you for coming.
Well, as you may
have guessed,
there's been a
change in leadership.
I'll be overseeing Ascension
during the transitional period.
I want you to know
how grateful I am
for alerting me
to the anomaly.
I was just doing my job.
Well, that's why
I'm keeping you on.
I look forward to
working with you.
Katherine, please!
Director Warren, please!
Katherine,
I'm begging you!
Look at me!
Come on, this way!
Come on!
(echoing): Christa.
Christa!
I wanna show you.
You didn't
congratulate me!
I'm gonna be a father!
Duke...
After all these
years of waiting,
I should be happy about it,
but I'm not,
'cause, see,
I just found out
that my wife has been
sleeping with another man!
You couldn't find
your own woman, huh?
(Vanderhaus grunting,
Gault groaning)
Goddamn decker!
You put your hands on my wife!
Captain...
You know this woman
and child, don't you?
And what is the nature of
your relationship with them?
None.
None?
(chuckling)
You've been sending ration
credits to them, sir.
I took it upon myself
to ensure food for the boy.
Hardly an impeachable defense.
Is that so?
Now that it's out in the open,
I find councilman
Davis' unwillingness
to take responsibility
for his son shameful.
It's bad enough that Davis
has broken the ship's laws,
but to allow his
own child to suffer
so that he can maintain his
position and life of luxury
is repugnant.
Well...
In light of these
recent revelations,
perhaps we should...
The ship's bylaws are
quite clear on this matter.
Goddammit, Rose!
Councilman Davis,
I'm afraid we are going
to have to demand
your immediate
resignation.
(panting)
(birds chirping)
It's so bright!
I can barely see!
(laughing)
Stokes, please, we gotta
get out of here now!
We've gotta go!
Hans Yablon.
I knew him.
Captain Elgin.
Mitchell bowman.
What... what is this?
It's a memorial.
All these people died
without ever knowing the truth?
Dwight crouch.
Stokes, we gotta
go now! Hey!
We have to
(both grunting)
Why did you bring me here?
Why did you bring me
here to my son's grave?
(panting)
(men grunting)
(roaring)
(gasping)
(both grunting)
Lorelei!
(electricity crackling,
Vanderhaus groaning)
Duke!
It's Christa.
(alarm blaring)
(Warren coughing)
Oh! What was that?
Did you see anyone?
Dead.
(both grunting)
I underestimated you, Harris.
That was one hell
of a contingency place!
I swear I had
nothing to do with it!
I have never seen
anything like it!
Get him out of here!
Find out what happened
to the power!
Katherine, listen to me!
The bunker, it has
massive redundancies.
It's shouldn't be possible for
anything to short the system!
Whatever it was,
it came from that ship!
It had to be Christa.
Wait!
The girl in
Krueger's report.
We have never
had anything like it.
She is punctuated
evolution made real!
Everything that
we've been working for.
Tell me more.
(electricity crackling)
(alarm blaring)
Mr. Gault!
Wake up, please!
(echoing):
I saw Lorelei.
She led me here.
(whispering):
Christa...
(groaning)
Christa.
Why did you bring me here?
(sobbing)
Stokes, listen to me.
Listen to me!
You're right!
Their lives were
wasted, but not yours.
You know the truth, Stokes.
You can help.
You can save the people
still on Ascension.
(guard):
Hands in the air!
Stay where you are,
and show me your id.
Ok! Samantha Krueger.
Nice and easy.
Special operations.
- Scan it.
- Ok, ok!
(beeping)
Hey! That's enough!
Hey, that's enough!
We gotta go!
Come on!
(car beeping)
It's this one here!
Here! Get in!
Hey! Hey!
Get in!
You're bleeding.
(panting)
(whispering):
Ok! Ok!
(electricity crackling)
Gault! Gault!
Come on!
Come on, wake up! Wake up!
What?
You must've been caught
in the electrical
discharge from the surge.
You are lucky to be alive
surge?
(woman): I don't
understand what happened!
(woman groaning)
What's going on?
(squealing)
Oh my god!
(men and women): Oh!
(man): Take cover!
I need gate 23
open, goddammit!
Carrillo!
I need answers.
Uh...
Every system connected
to the ship is out,
electrical,
surveillance, security.
What about the
backup generators?
They're all fried.
It must've been a massive
electromagnetic burst.
I had to reroute
to get power!
How long till we're back up?
This has never happened.
It's the first time
in 50 years
we don't have eyes
on the ship.
Both of them?
What?
Stokes is working
with Krueger.
She broke him out.
Yes, I was wrong, Harris,
but I was so certain
you were hiding something,
I couldn't see what
she was up to.
Who's she working for?
Well, I thought it was me!
You just focus on getting
Ascension back online.
You were gonna kill me.
And now I'm giving
you the opportunity
to get your job back.
If this girl is really
responsible for all of this,
you've made a
remarkable breakthrough.
Until the comm
systems are back up,
we're going deck to deck,
checking all the
essential systems.
So far, no sign
of sabotage.
I remember what happened
in the wake of the fire.
Crisis brings out
the worst in people.
I'm depending on your safety
officers to keep the peace.
Dr. Bryce, what's
happening to my ship?
It was a massive
power discharge.
I haven't found what
originated it or what caused it.
- Could it be the reactor?
- No, no!
The shielding is holding.
The cooling levels
are acceptable.
Mrs. Vanderhaus,
are we still on course?
I'll know once the nav
computer's working.
Right now, we're
flying blind.
XO on deck!
It's about time, Gault!
Coordinate a
ship-wide damage survey
with Mrs. Vanderhaus.
Sir, shouldn't I be
helping out below decks?
People are panicking.
You don't choose
your assignment.
Next time you step
on my bridge,
you better not smell
like a distillery.
Are we clear?
Jackie, help me take
the rest of these supplies
down to Dr. Bryce.
Who's Jackie?
Who are you?
What do you want?
I was working on the midline
when it blew a circuit.
I thought, hell, I've never
been in the officer's lounge.
They've got some
nice perks here.
The lounge is closed.
I'm taking this to medical.
Oh, feeling charitable?
I just got off the comm.
The safety officers are
coming to take these supplies.
That's a cute trick, with
the comms being down and all.
What's the matter?
Are you afraid?
(grunting)
Let go!
(groaning)
You bitch!
That hurt!
(groaning)
Oh my god!
It's illuminated!
My father had it hardwired
into the ship's reactor
in order to ensure the illusion
would never be shattered,
no matter what happened
on the outside.
So they don't know.
Carrillo, have supply bring up
the spools of 220.
We're gonna tap into
the ship's nuclear reactor.
Ok, right away!
You look surprised
to see me.
This isn't the sort of
job you get fired from.
Did you think about that
when you sold me out?
Did you consider
my wife, my son?
Harris...
Get the 220.
What the hell is that?
(♪ Man singing rock
on PA, indistinct ♪)
(crying):
It's all right here!
Sir, are you ok?
You're bleeding.
Um, I need painkillers.
Acetaminophen, ibuprofen?
As strong as you got.
If you want
anything stronger,
You have to have
a prescription.
- Ow!
- Hey!
Painkillers!
Painkillers.
Ow!
Don't hurt him!
Don't... don't hurt him!
I'll get them.
It's fried!
Electrical is at 40%!
Environmental, 30%!
Come on!
Cryogenic, no response!
(beeping)
Scrubber room, no response.
Are you gonna tell
me what happened?
I was caught in the surge.
Since when does an
electrical shock do that?
It doesn't!
(breathing shallowly)
Oh! Oh god!
Hit the light!
Hit the light behind you!
(groaning)
Lay down!
(muttering, indistinct)
(whispering):
Ok, all right.
(groaning)
Must everything on
this infernal planet
be cocooned in plastic?
Listen, you need
to take this.
What is it?
If you're in trouble,
You press and you
hold down number 1, ok?
- Ok.
- It's on speed dial.
Someone will come
who can help you.
Ok.
Oh god!
Use it now,
if it's so damn helpful!
I don't wanna involve
her if I don't have to.
We need to get out of the
country. We need to regroup.
Don't go dying on me, ok?
We don't have
a lot of time!
Mr. Carrillo?
So, he wants to tap into
the ship's nuclear reactor.
It seems questionable.
It's already feeding
the star field.
We're just skimming enough
juice to run the monitors.
Too much, and the
stars will dim.
He knows I sold him out.
Don't worry about Enzmann.
The terms we discussed
are still in effect.
You told him he'd run
the project again.
And he believed me.
So stay close to him,
Make him think
you're on his side.
We need him till this place
is up and running.
Why?
The girl.
If she's what
Enzmann claims she is,
The TC group will
be very happy.
- We have a new problem.
- What now?
When Ascension was built,
There were no mobile phones
or satellite tv's.
The R.F. jammers weren't added
until a decade later.
They weren't hardwired
to the ship.
They could be picking up any
transmission in the spectrum...
Radio, digital, microwave.
It doesn't take much
to shatter an illusion.
I need to get to the jammers.
They're in my office.
Take Mr. Carrillo with you,
And Medici.
Ok!
I need those levels
up onscreen now!
(electricity crackling)
(man): Yes, sir!
(Bryce): Ok...
(Bryce talking, indistinct)
Excuse me, Dr. Bryce?
Yeah, what is it, James?
Something's happening
with the panopticon.
There's a
strange broadcast.
Strange how?
Automobiles and
computers from earth,
But like nothing I've
ever seen in the library.
It must be feedback
from the main server.
I've been having trouble with it
since the Ostara celebration.
But aren't the archives
on a separate server?
I designed the system.
I know it better than you.
Yes, sir.
If you wanna be helpful,
can you find Nora?
Her mother's
worried about her.
I was told to
remain on the bridge.
I'm telling you
to find my daughter.
Yes, sir!
Christa?
(panting)
(whispering):
Dammit!
(whispering): Ok.
Christa!
You unleashed an ocean,
didn't you?
Whatever caused that impact
obviously knocked the system
out of alignment.
Councilman Rose,
may I speak with you?
Excuse me.
What can I do for you?
Someone threatened
Viondra in the lounge.
It's not safe here.
I thought I could come with you.
What made you think that?
After the way the way you
undermined me in the council,
You're now seeking
refuge under my wing?
You're dumber than I thought!
Please, I didn't know.
The litany of what you don't
know is too long a list.
What I do know is that
I lost leverage because of you,
'cause you were too busy
being bent over the
massage table by Denninger
to realize you
were being played!
No, let me come with you!
Just for tonight.
My dear Jackie,
there is a cost
for failure,
a cost you are
about to learn.
(man): When you've reached
the forbidden planet...
(cell phone ringing)
(breathing heavily)
- Hello?
- (Eva): Sam!
Where are you?
What's going on?
Things got complicated.
You shouldn't have called.
You got me involved.
You think they won't
trace you to my website?
There's a
long-term parking lot
on the corner of
Lincoln and Fifth.
Meet me there in an hour.
How does it compare
to the real thing?
(chuckling)
How the hell should I know?
I've never been in space.
At least they got
alien princesses
with hardly any clothes on.
I need to... I need to
go get some things
if we're gonna disappear.
Why are you helping me?
(sniffing)
(groaning, sighing)
Look...
It's not just about you.
It's the whole program,
the idea that they can
just engineer the whole
world to their liking,
sweep everything
under the table.
It doesn't fit.
So it's revenge?
Balance.
It's about time
that I did something
that I felt good about.
You really think one action
can make up for another.
I hope so.
Bandages, opiates,
rubbing alcohol?
Where did all
of this come from?
The council's private
emergency stash.
I thought it may be
better utilized here.
Thank you, Viondra.
(men whistling and catcalling)
I heard about the scare
in the officer's lounge.
Sometimes a crisis
gives weak men an excuse
to prey on the fairer sex.
Oh, it feels good
to roll up my sleeves
instead of
putting on heels.
(women): Oh! Oh!
(Juliet): Come here!
Ok, come on!
Alison?
Help me get her
to the exam table.
Hey! Alison?
Let's go over the data again.
(equipment beeping)
What about the reports
from water rec?
Nothing significant. Why?
Let's overlay the downed
systems on the schematic.
There!
On the beach. That's where
the surge started.
Emily, Duke and I
got into a fight down there.
Suddenly, a blue
light appeared,
So bright, it hurt
to look at it.
Then nothing.
I don't remember
anything until...
Christa woke me up.
She said she saw Lorelei!
Lorelei?
She said she
led her there.
Emily?
What's wrong?
Em? Emily?
Help!
Come on!
(pig grunting, James laughing)
It's not funny!
You're right, it's not.
This is exactly what
I expected to find you doing.
Why were you
looking for me?
I thought you said we
didn't have a future.
Your father asked me
to find you. He was worried.
Why? He knows where I am.
Come on!
That's strange.
I think he was trying
to get me off the bridge
because of this
broadcast I saw.
Why do you think that?
It was different from
anything I've ever seen,
Like, the clothes, the cars.
Your father was acting
like it was no big deal,
But I got the feeling he was
really worried that I saw it.
(beeping)
All right! We're live!
Full system status report.
I need to know everything
that's been going on in there.
This is all over the news.
That's Stokes, isn't it?
Where is he?
Robbed a pharmacy downtown,
grabbed booze and pills.
His hands were
covered in blood,
But, apparently,
he wasn't injured.
Krueger.
Oh! My problem just
might be solving itself.
What about yours?
Juliet! She passed out!
Get her on the table.
(Denninger):
What the hell's going on?
It must be hypercapnia.
I have 3 other patients
with the same symptoms.
An oxygen tank!
The air-quality system
must be malfunctioning.
When we were
running checks,
We couldn't get a response
from the scrubber room.
If the scrubbers are out,
the co2 toxicity is climbing
with every breath we take.
If it reaches 5%, it's fatal.
- And our repair team?
- Spread out over the ship.
We can't reach them.
My mother worked
the scrubbers.
I was practically raised
down there. I know the system.
- I'll go with him.
- No, keep the peace on the upper decks.
Gault and I will go down to
try to restart the scrubbers.
Juliet, do you have
any more oxygen tanks?
In the lab.
Hey!
Why didn't you tell me
about the officer's lounge?
I'm a grown woman.
I'm capable of taking
care of myself.
That's not the point.
You're my wife.
It's my job to protect you.
Take care of yourself
this time, ok?
(car beeping)
What is all this stuff?
Plan B. It's my
bug-out car.
Are you all right?
We need to get as far
away from here as possible.
I got Stokes out as a witness.
They're gonna come after us.
But, Sam, maybe we can talk
to someone, work something out!
Tell them we'll
go away, disappear.
These people have one solution
for every kind of problem.
I'm getting Stokes,
And then we're getting the hell
out of dodge, all of us!
Where are we going?
Switzerland, Venezuela.
Somewhere.
We're going full snowdon.
The world is gonna
know about Ascension!
(man): Come on!
Get on this side!
(woman): Come on!
Come on! Hurry up!
Move!
(woman):
Hurry up! Hurry up!
We're running
out of oxygen tanks.
At this rate,
We'll have exhausted the
reserves within the hour.
What is it, James?
Actually, they sent me to
speak with you, Mrs. Denninger.
We can't reach the
captain or the XO.
Spot checks of co2 indicate
it's nearing fatal levels.
Why are you telling me?
Councilman Rose
is in engineering.
With the midline and comm out,
We can't reach him
or the other officers.
According to
the ship's bylaws,
You're the highest
ranking official.
My position isn't command.
Ma'am, you're the highest
ranking official we can find.
What are your orders?
Radiation alert protocol.
Get as many people as you
can into the sleeping pods.
Their oxygen supply
could buy us some time.
(man on PA):
Radiation alert.
(Denninger): Good god!
This entire section is fried!
Yeah.
They called a radiation alert!
Smart!
It'll buy us some time.
I'm at 30%! You?
20! The scrubber room is on
the other side of this hatch!
Fine! Let's get
that door open!
(beeping)
(whispering): Shit!
Harris, there's something
you should see.
The ship's carbon-dioxide
scrubbers are offline.
Get me a full analysis...
Cubic metres of breathable air,
rate of toxicity.
I need to know exactly
how long they have.
4% and rising.
They're all gonna die.
We have to do something.
What? Open the windows?
It's completely sealed
with a double hull.
This thing was designed
to take the direct
impact of an asteroid.
If we open up the airlocks,
They'll use the turbine
to suck out the co2.
We barely have enough power
to run the monitors,
Much less the turbines!
Their only hope is to
get the scrubbers working.
It's up to them.
Then we're going in now.
It's the perfect opportunity
to get the girl out.
You can't! It's a complicated
process to board the ship.
We need to create
a plausible reason.
- They're in their pods.
- Not all of them!
It's a delicate ecosystem.
Christa is the heart of it.
If you take her out,
You can't expect
it to survive.
And if they don't
repair the scrubber,
She dies along with
the rest of them.
Are you willing to take
that chance, Harris?
I'm not.
Medici, you're going in!
I'm sorry, Harris,
But it looks like your space
heroes aren't heroes at all.
They're just men...
And men die.
(alarm blaring)
Christa?
Christa, I've been looking
everywhere for you!
What are you
doing down here?
Lorelei wanted to show me
what was in the water.
There's nothing
down there, Christa.
It's just a reservoir.
It's farther down.
I saw it rise up.
What else did
Lorelei tell you?
That none of this is real,
That they're gonna try
and take me off the ship.
Who, Christa?
Who's gonna come
and take you?
Globus.
(banging)
They're coming!
Christa!
(Enzmann on radio):
Listen to me.
Once you get in,
you cannot be seen by anyone.
Just get me to the girl.
Anyone stands in my way,
I'll deal with them.
You can't!
Watch me.
(beeping)
Clear the bridge of
non-essential crew.
Everyone into their pods.
Yes, ma'am!
James, what's the
status on the comm?
Still working
on it, ma'am.
As soon as they're back up,
try the scrubber room.
And don't stop till you get an answer.
Yes, ma'am!
Wow! I always knew the true
power behind the captain,
But now I see it
with my own eyes.
Councilman, you should
be in your radiation pod.
That would be a
dereliction of duty.
With the captain
and XO missing,
It falls on me to finally
command this ship.
They tried to
reach you repeatedly.
I was tied up
in engineering.
Oh, Viondra, look,
I know it was you
that masterminded that
double-cross with the council.
I don't have time for...
How do you remember whose
face to show to whom?
You never intended to help me
become captain. I get that.
But let me ask you this:
What kind of man would
send his wife off
to sleep with his enemy?
One that isn't
threatened by any man.
Now, get your
hand off of me!
You are a hell of
a woman, Viondra.
Thank you for keeping
my captain's seat warm.
Remove the councilman
from the bridge,
See that he makes it safely
back to his pod.
Ignore that! I'm the ranking
official on this bridge!
When I was made
acting captain,
I issued a state of emergency
freezing the chain of command.
Now get the hell off my bridge!
(sighing)
(breathing heavily)
Christa! Stop!
This is Robert Bryce
on Ascension. Do you read me?
on Ascension.
Do you read me?
(beeping)
Is anyone there, please?
Answer me!
I'm, uh, getting feedback
from the jammers.
- What does it matter?
- Nothing.
If you want the ham-radio
operators of the world
to start getting
signals from the ship.
Fix it.
(Bryce):
Is anyone there?
Answer me!
Are you alone?
Uh...
Yeah, yeah.
Christa said someone
from Globus is coming.
Are you sending someone in?
It's not me.
You have to call them off.
You cannot take her
off this ship!
It's out of my hands.
You have to get her
out of there.
- No, I can't!
- He's coming.
(footsteps approaching)
No!
(panting)
The scrubber power grid
is blown! Hurry!
This whole place could go up!
(screaming)
Goddammit!
Gault! Gault!
Gault, can you hear me?
Stokes?
Stokes!
Oh, goddammit!
How could they
have found him?
They could've combed
through traffic cameras,
Tapped into the
mapping satellite,
Following us ever since!
Wait!
(car honking in distance)
Hey!
I thought I told
you to stay put.
You did.
Hmm! Is that
your friend?
Eva Marceau.
I've heard
a lot about you.
I've only seen it in movies.
Guess that sounds
pretty pathetic to you, huh?
Not at all.
I'd like to be able to see
the moon for the first time.
Shit may not have been real,
but it was my home.
So far, the only thing that
impresses me about here...
(clicks tongue)
Right there.
Hang in there.
It's gotta be better
than the stockyards.
We'll see!
Get whatever you
need from the room.
It's time to go.
(sighing)
You're good,
you know that?
I never said
where he worked.
(sighing)
Is that how they kept
the project a secret
all these years?
A honey trap?
Anyone who gets too close
to the truth, they find you?
- Sam, please.
- No, I'm such an idiot...
To think that
I actually thought
I could make a difference.
I'm sorry, sweetie,
But the starchild
must be born.
Gault!
Gault! Can you hear me?
Gault! Come on,
you've gotta get up!
We have to get the scrubbers
working. We're out of oxygen!
We don't need them.
We need what's in them!
Come here.
(groaning)
Easy, easy.
Lithium dioxide.
I remember my mother
refilling the scrubbers with it.
Carbon dioxide changes
into oxygen and water
once it comes into
contact with it.
We have to spray it
through the ship.
(crew coughing)
Bridge, I need all
power to the HVAC system!
Keep trying, Gault!
(static)
Are you sure
this will work?
It's our only hope!
(breathing heavily)
(alarm blaring)
- Christa!
- There.
That's where they're
gonna come from.
You're right.
They're coming for you.
Bad people!
Bad people like you?
You remember, don't you?
Lorelei knew the truth.
That's why you killed her?
I didn't wanna hurt her.
She was gonna ruin everything.
I stopped her
to save us all.
(banging)
(beeping)
This is the XO.
Do you read me?
Bridge!
XO, are you there?
Viondra, is that you?
(sighing)
I'm here, William.
Co2 levels are toxic.
The crew isn't gonna
last much longer.
Listen, I need your help!
We have to spread lithium
dioxide through the ventilation
to make oxygen.
Come on, we've
gotta get out of here.
Christa, these men...
These men, Christa, if they
get you, they'll hurt you.
They will dissect you
like lab rat.
Please, come with me.
(banging)
(whispering): Ok.
Please! Come on!
(beeping)
I want full power to
the ventilation system now.
(ventilation system whirring)
All right! Let's do this!
(both grunting)
No!
You can't have her.
- You feel that?
- Gault, help me!
(gasping)
I felt this before
on the beach.
Lorelei?
Gault!
(Christa screaming)
(screaming):
No! Let go of me! No!
No! No!
Let go! No! No!
Don't let them take you.
(man): Ma'am!
The oxygen levels are rising!
(grunting)
(Viondra):
They did it!
(Christa screaming)
Let me go!
Help me! Somebody help!
Please! Let go of me!
(men grunting)
(both grunting)
(Medici groaning)
(beeping, static)
Where's the picture?
Where's the
goddamn picture?
(gasping)
I told him
I didn't wanna go.
(Christa sobbing)
I told him...
What is happening
in there, Medici?
Answer me!
Medici!
Answer me, goddammit!
I don't want any
"I told you so's,"
because this isn't over!
I am not about to go back
to the TC group empty-handed.
Medici!
Medici, answer...
(screaming)
You're wrong.
They are heroes,
and they're going to space.
Call the TC group.
Director Warren
had an accident.
(crickets chirping)
(grunting)
(boat horn blaring)
(car tires screeching,
horn honking)
It works.
Huh?
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org